README.md, before:

# HyStartPP
## Implementation of HyStart++ in the Linux kernel's TCP CUBIC congestion control.

This project implements HyStart++ (as described in [RFC 9406](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9406)) within the TCP CUBIC congestion control algorithm in the Linux kernel (i.e., in `tcp_cubic.c`).
While HyStart++ is designed to replace its predecessor HyStart, we have currently retained both algorithms, allowing users to choose between them.

## Implementation Details
To enhance clarity and maintainability, we have defined a distinct set of variables for HyStart++ rather than reusing existing HyStart variables. For instance, when tracking the minimum RTT in the current round, we opted not to reuse HyStart's `curr_rtt`. Instead, we introduced `hspp_current_round_minrtt`, which serves the same purpose but ensures better separation between HyStart and HyStart++ logic.
This separation also makes it easier to eventually remove the HyStart implementation if needed.

The implementation includes `RFC9406_Lnnn` markers, where `nnn` is a three-digit number referencing the corresponding line in RFC 9406 [see here](./implementation/rfc9406.txt#L227).

To provide clarity, we included a [block diagram](./implementation/block_diagram.pdf) that introduces the new procedures and code added to `tcp_cubic.c` and illustrates their interactions.

The [patch](./implementation/tcp_cubic.patch), and the modified `tcp_cubic.c` can be found in the `implementation`  directory within the project.

## Testing and Evaluation
We have conducted preliminary tests to evaluate the performance of HyStart++ in TCP CUBIC. The results, along with discussions and analysis, can be found [here](https://sussdeveloper.github.io/HyStartPP/evaluation/index.html).


## Enabling HyStart or HyStart++ and Running a Test
1. Selecting the Algorithm

By default, HyStart is enabled. To switch between HyStart and HyStart++, use the following commands:

Enable HyStart++ (disabling HyStart automatically):
<pre>
echo 1 > /sys/module/tcp_cubic/parameters/hystartpp
</pre>

Revert to HyStart (disable HyStart++):
<pre>
echo 0 > /sys/module/tcp_cubic/parameters/hystartpp
</pre>

2. Running a Test

After enabling the desired algorithm, you can conduct network performance tests.
By default, the source port used for TCP data transfer is <b>80</b>. If your test uses a different source port, you can set it using the following command:

<pre>
echo <port_number> > /sys/module/tcp_cubic/parameters/hystartpp_source_port
</pre>

This setting enables logging of information in the `/var/log/kern.log` file on Linux.

Foe example, the following log entry:
<pre>
t 874877310 c 22 i 21 f 0 r 100949 a 1 d 18824 l 0
</pre>
is from `/var/log/kern.log`, where:
- **t** represents the timestamp in microseconds.
- **c** represents the size of cwnd.
- **i** represents the number of packets in flight.
- **f** represents the flag (see the patch).
- **r** represents the smoothed RTT in microseconds.
- **a** represents the number of packets acknowledged by the received ACK.
- **d** represents the amount of data delivered so far.
- **l** represents the number of packet losses since the start of data transfer.

Commit message:

Document HyStart++ integration and its override of HyStart

README.md, after:

# HyStartPP
## Implementation of HyStart++ in the Linux kernel's TCP CUBIC congestion control.

This project implements HyStart++ (as described in [RFC 9406](https://datatracker.ietf.org/doc/rfc9406)) within the TCP CUBIC congestion control algorithm in the Linux kernel (i.e., in `tcp_cubic.c`).
While HyStart++ is designed to replace its predecessor HyStart, we have currently retained both algorithms, allowing users to choose between them.

## Implementation Details
To ensure clarity, maintainability, and ease of review, all modifications in `tcp_cubic.c` have been made without altering or removing any existing statements. Instead, the necessary changes have been introduced by adding new lines of code. This approach preserves the original structure and logic of the current version while making it easier to track modifications and maintain compatibility with future updates to the Linux kernel. To achieve this, a new module parameter, `hystartpp`, has been defined, along with a few additional variables instead of reusing similar ones from HyStart. For example, rather than reusing HyStart\'92s `curr_rtt` to track the minimum RTT in the current round, we introduced `hspp_current_round_minrtt`. In this implementation, HyStart++ overrides HyStart, meaning it controls the slow-start phase whenever the `hystartpp` module parameter is set to a nonzero value, regardless of the `hystart` setting.

The implementation includes `RFC9406_Lnnn` markers, where `nnn` is a three-digit number referencing the corresponding line in RFC 9406. For example, {RFC9406_L227} points to a concept, instruction, or code located on line 227 of the RFC [see here](./implementation/rfc9406.txt#L227).

To provide clarity, we included a [block diagram](./implementation/block_diagram.pdf) that introduces the new procedures and code added to `tcp_cubic.c` and illustrates their interactions.

The [patch](./implementation/tcp_cubic.patch), and the modified `tcp_cubic.c` can be found in the `implementation`  directory within the project.

## Testing and Evaluation
We have conducted preliminary tests to evaluate the performance of HyStart++ in TCP CUBIC. The results, along with discussions and analysis, can be found [here](https://sussdeveloper.github.io/HyStartPP/evaluation/index.html).


## Enabling HyStart or HyStart++ and Running a Test
1. Selecting the Algorithm

By default, HyStart is enabled. To switch between HyStart and HyStart++, use the following commands:

Enable HyStart++ (disabling HyStart automatically):
<pre>
echo 1 > /sys/module/tcp_cubic/parameters/hystartpp
</pre>

Revert to HyStart (disable HyStart++):
<pre>
echo 0 > /sys/module/tcp_cubic/parameters/hystartpp
</pre>

2. Running a Test

After enabling the desired algorithm, you can conduct network performance tests.
By default, the source port used for TCP data transfer is <b>80</b>. If your test uses a different source port, you can set it using the following command:

<pre>
echo <port_number> > /sys/module/tcp_cubic/parameters/hystartpp_source_port
</pre>

This setting enables logging of information in the `/var/log/kern.log` file on Linux.

Foe example, the following log entry:
<pre>
t 874877310 c 22 i 21 f 0 r 100949 a 1 d 18824 l 0
</pre>
is from `/var/log/kern.log`, where:
- **t** represents the timestamp in microseconds.
- **c** represents the size of cwnd.
- **i** represents the number of packets in flight.
- **f** represents the flag (see the patch).
- **r** represents the smoothed RTT in microseconds.
- **a** represents the number of packets acknowledged by the received ACK.
- **d** represents the amount of data delivered so far.
- **l** represents the number of packet losses since the start of data transfer.
